1;because;чунки;We need to study because we have a test tomorrow.
1;east;шарқ;My window looks to the east, so I can watch the sunrise every morning.
1;expensive;гарон;My friend drives an expensive sports car.
1;flower;гул;She gave pink flowers to her grandmother.
1;garden;боғ;The garden is very bright and colorful in the spring.
1;holiday;иди;Monday was a holiday, so there was no school or work.
1;many;бисёр;There are many people on the street.
1;million;миллион;Almost 19 million people live in Delhi, India.
1;mountain;кӯҳ;Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world.
1;place;ҷой;A library is a place where people can read books.
1;popular;машҳур;These people are listening to a popular man speak.
1;ski;лижаронӣ кардан;The man likes to ski and goes every weekend.
1;such;чунин;I have never seen such a beautiful sunset before.
1;total;умумӣ;The total cost of the items she bought was $52.
1;tower;бурҷ;This is a very famous tower in Italy.
1;town;шаҳрак;I come from a small town, and everyone there knows each other.
1;train;поезд;The train is very fast, so we can get home in one hour.
1;walk;пиёда гаштан;The children walk to school in the morning.
1;watch;тамошо кардан;My friend came over to watch a movie with me.
1;world;дунё;What are the names of the five oceans of the world?
2;anxious;изтироб;She was anxious about not making her appointment on time.
2;awful;даҳшатнок;Her performance last night was awful.
2;consist;иборат будан;Today's choices for lunch consisted of pizza, hamburgers, and hot dogs.
2;desire;хоҳиш;My sister desires a big house and lots of money.
2;eager;муштоқ;The man was eager to talk about the good news.
2;household;хонавода;Our household is made up of my father, my mother, and me.
2;intent;ният;Her intent is to visit Italy next summer.
2;landscape;манзара;The landscape of the country is very green.
2;lift;бардоштан;The man tried to lift the box.
2;load;бор кардан;The man loaded the boxes into a truck.
2;lung;шуш;Having strong lungs is necessary for a healthy life.
2;motion;ҳаракат;The police officer made a motion with his hand.
2;pace;суръат;I ran the race at a slower pace than my friend.
2;polite;боодобона;The boy was very polite; he behaved very thoughtfully.
2;possess;соҳиб будан;My uncle possesses three sheep, a chicken, a cow, and a dog.
2;rapidly;босуръат;The train moved rapidly on the tracks.
2;remark;қайд кардан;The teacher remarked on how quickly the students were learning.
2;seek;ҷустуҷӯ кардан;If I have a problem, I seek my sister's advice.
2;shine;дурахшидан;The candles are shining in the dark room.
2;spill;рехтан;I spilled the coffee on the table.
3;arrow;тир;The arrow flew through the air and hit the target.
3;battle;ҷанг;The battle lasted for many days.
3;bow;камон;He went hunting with a bow and arrow.
3;brave;далер;The brave firefighter saved the girl from the burning building.
3;chief;сардор;The chief led the people through the mountains.
3;disadvantage;ногуворӣ;Mike had a disadvantage in the race since he hurt his knee.
3;enemy;душман;The enemy prepared to attack the kingdom.
3;entrance;даромадгоҳ;The gate was locked, so Bill had to find a different entrance.
3;hardly;зӯр ба зӯр;I hardly saw the concert since I had to leave early.
3;intend;ният доштан;I intend to finish college in three years.
3;laughter;хандидан;Susan's joke made her classmates burst into laughter.
3;log;кунда;The fire was too small, so we added another log to it.
3;military;низомӣ;I joined the military after I finished high school.
3;obey;итоат кардан;My little sister did not obey my mother. Now, she is in trouble.
3;secure;таъмин кардан;I was able to secure a good grade on my test after weeks of studying.
3;steady;устувор;The problem was hard, but she remained steady and solved it.
3;trust;бовар кардан;I trust my friends; they don't tell my secrets to other people.
3;twist;печондан;She twisted the spaghetti around her fork.
3;unless;агар не;Unless you clean your room, you cannot play with your friends.
3;weapon;силоҳ;Swords have been used as weapons for thousands of years.
4;chest;сина;The water in the lake was as high as my chest.
4;confidence;эътимод;I have confidence that I did well on the test.
4;consequence;оқибат;As a consequence of missing my bus, I had to find another way to work.
4;disaster;офат;When the car crashed, it was a disaster.
4;disturb;халал расондан;The loud noise disturbed me while I was working.
4;estimate;тахмин кардан;The boy estimated that he was one meter tall.
4;honor;эҳтиром;Each year we honor those who died fighting for their country.
4;impress;таассурот бахшидан;He was able to impress the girls with his new dance.
4;narrow;тангу борик;The bridge is too narrow for a car to drive across it.
4;pale;рангпарида;The girl's skin was very pale.
4;rough;ноҳамвор;The rough ground hurt my feet.
4;satisfy;қонеъ кардан;It will satisfy my teacher if I finish all my homework.
4;scream;фарёд задан;The girl saw a spider and screamed.
4;sensitive;ҳассос;My teeth are sensitive to cold things.
4;shade;соя;It was hot outside, so the boy sat in the shade of a tree.
4;strength;қувват;Eating good food builds up your strength.
4;supplement;илова кардан;He supplements his diet with fresh fruits.
4;terror;даҳшат;I felt a sense of terror when the tiger chased me.
4;threat;таҳдид;Due to the dark clouds, there was a threat of a bad storm.
4;victim;қурбонӣ;I was a victim of a robbery.
5;ancestor;аҷдод;My ancestors came from Germany.
5;angle;кунҷ;The giraffe turned its head to see from another angle.
5;boot;мӯза;He wore boots so that his feet wouldn't get wet.
5;border;сарҳад;The postcard had a pretty green border of pine needles.
5;congratulate;табрик кардан;Bill and Angela congratulated each other on a job well done.
5;frame;чорчӯба;I have to get a frame for my friend's picture.
5;heaven;биҳишт;When I die, I hope that I go to heaven.
5;incredible;аҷиб;I have an incredible story to tell you about my vacation.
5;legend;ривоят;There is a well-known legend about a king and his queen.
5;praise;таъриф кардан;The coach praised the athletes after a good practice.
5;proceed;идома додан;My son and I proceeded to the beach so we could go fishing.
5;pure;холис;The rose was pure. It had no dirt or imperfections.
5;relative;хешованд;My relatives came by to see the new baby.
5;senior;калонсол;Because he got his job first, Bob is the senior chef.
5;silent;хомӯш;Since no one was home, the house was silent.
5;sink;ғарқ шудан;The boat had a hole in it, and it sank into the ocean.
5;superior;бартар;I think cooking outdoors is superior to cooking indoors.
5;surround;иҳота кардан;We surrounded the suspect on all four sides.
5;thick;ғафс;The fog was so thick that I couldn't see through it.
5;wrap;печондан;I wrapped his gift and put a bow on it.
6;also;инчунин;I like blue, and I also like yellow.
6;automatically;автоматӣ;The man automatically smiled when he thought about his friend.
6;busy;машғул;Everyone is busy at the office today.
6;can;тавонистан;Sad news can make her cry.
6;clear;пок кардан;I need to clear my desk because it is too messy.
6;close;пӯшидан;The man wanted to close the door tightly.
6;discuss;муҳокима кардан;James began to discuss his report with his teacher.
6;feel;эҳсос кардан;The girl must feel happy because it is her birthday today.
6;listen;гӯш кардан;Lisa wanted to listen carefully to her friend.
6;meet;вохӯрдан;Ken's mother wanted to meet his teacher today.
6;music;мусиқӣ;The boy makes music by playing a guitar.
6;normal;муқаррарӣ;It is normal to wear school uniforms in private schools.
6;quiet;ором;The man told the children to be quiet.
6;relax;дам гирифтан;Nicole likes to relax by reading books.
6;sleep;хоб кардан;The child goes to sleep in her bedroom at night.
6;stress;стресс;Dan has a lot of stress at work.
6;study;хондан;The woman needed a quiet place to study for a big test.
6;talk;гап задан;They went someplace to talk to each other.
6;work;кор кардан;They need to work together to finish an important project.
6;write;навиштан;I need to write a story for my homework.
7;basis;асос;My grandfather gets his hearing checked on a yearly basis.
7;biology;биология;We learned about the human heart in biology class.
7;cage;қафас;We put the parrots in their cage at night.
7;colleague;ҳамкор;My colleague helped me finish the job.
7;colony;мустамлика;The USA was at one time a colony of Great Britain.
7;debate;мубоҳиса;The husband and wife debated which TV to buy.
7;depart;рафтан;The plane departed for Italy at 3:00 this afternoon.
7;depress;дилгир кардан;The bad news from work depressed the man.
7;factual;воқеӣ;John learns about history from factual books.
7;fascinate;мафтун кардан;The kitten was fascinated by the ball of yarn.
7;mission;вазифа;The woman's mission was to help sick people.
7;nevertheless;бо вуҷуди ин;He is usually friendly. Nevertheless, he wasn't friendly this afternoon.
7;occupation;касб;My father's occupation is a dentist.
7;overseas;хориҷа;John often goes overseas for vacations.
7;persuade;бовар кунонидан;The children persuaded their parents to buy them gifts.
7;route;масир;I saw many new houses along the route to the city.
7;ruins;харобаҳо;I visited some interesting ruins in Greece.
7;scholar;олим;The scholar knew much about art history.
7;significant;муҳим;I read many significant novels as a literature major in university.
7;volcano;вулқон;When the volcano erupted, smoke and heat filled the air.
8;broad;васеъ;The river is very long and broad.
8;bush;бутта;My dad and I planted some small bushes around the house.
8;capable;қобил;The Olympic athlete is capable of lifting a lot of weight.
8;cheat;фиреб додан;They cheated on the test by sharing answers.
8;concentrate;тамаркуз кардан;I could not concentrate on my homework because the room was so loud.
8;conclude;хулоса баровардан;I saw crumbs on my dog's face, so I concluded that he ate my cookie.
8;confident;боварӣ доштан;She was confident she could climb the mountain due to her training.
8;considerable;назаррас;They paid a considerable amount of money for that car.
8;convey;расонидан;That picture of a crying child conveys a feeling of sadness.
8;definite;муайян;There is a definite connection between hard work and success.
8;delight;хурсандӣ;He felt such delight after getting a promotion at work.
8;destination;мақсад;The destination of this plane is Munich, Germany.
8;edge;канор;He ran to the edge of the cliff.
8;instructions;дастурҳо;Just follow the instructions and you will be OK.
8;path;роҳ;We followed a path through the woods.
8;resort;муроҷиат кардан;I hope they don't resort to violence to end the argument.
8;shadow;соя;The man's shadow was taller than he was.
8;succeed;муваффақ шудан;He will continue to work on the robot until he succeeds.
8;suspect;гумонбар шудан;I suspect that those kids stole the money.
8;valley;водии;We looked at the valley below from the top of the mountain.
9;against;зид;They both leaned against the wall.
9;beach;соҳил;The little girl built a sandcastle on the beach.
9;damage;зарар;The car was damaged in the accident.
9;discover;кашф кардан;I discovered some new information in this book.
9;emotion;эҳсос;Anger is a common emotion that we all feel.
9;fix;таъмир кардан;My dad has many tools to help him fix broken things.
9;identify;муайян кардан;I used the file to identify his name.
9;island;ҷазира;Japan is a group of islands.
9;ocean;уқёнус;The ocean can make powerful waves.
9;perhaps;шояд;Perhaps I will eat an apple for lunch.
9;pleasant;гуворо;The character had a pleasant look on its face.
9;prevent;пешгирӣ кардан;The handcuffs prevented me from moving my hands.
9;rock;санг;I stacked rocks on top of one another.
9;save;наҷот додан;I want to help save the world.
9;smile;табассум кардан;The baby smiled at me.
9;step;қадам;Be careful where you step.
9;still;то ҳол;They are still waiting in line to get tickets.
9;taste;таъм;The taste of the fruit was sweet.
9;throw;партофтан;The pitcher can throw the baseball very fast.
9;wave;мавҷ;The water was filled with large blue waves.
10;citizen;шаҳрванд;Carlos was born in Spain. He is a Spanish citizen.
10;council;шӯро;The council met to discuss the new laws for the city.
10;declare;эълон кардан;I declared my love for him.
10;enormous;азим;My dog looks enormous next to yours.
10;extraordinary;ғайриоддӣ;The fireman who rescued the girl was extraordinary.
10;fog;туман;I did not want to drive in the thick fog.
10;funeral;маросими дафн;They had a funeral for the soldier who died during the war.
10;giant;азим;The giant truck got in my way.
10;impression;таассурот;Most people's first impression of Dr. Giani is that he is mean.
10;intention;ният;Do you have good intentions?
10;mad;ғазабнок;Mother got mad when I didn't listen to her.
10;ought;лозим будан;I ought to take my library books back.
10;resist;муқовимат кардан;He resisted the treatment at the hospital.
10;reveal;ошкор кардан;I will reveal where I hid the candy bar.
10;rid;халос шудан;We rid our home of mice by using traps.
10;sword;шамшер;They used to use swords in battles in ancient times.
10;tale;афсона;She told her two friends about the wild tale of her day.
10;trap;дом;We trapped butterflies in a net.
10;trial;мурофиа;He went on trial for robbing the bank.
10;violent;зуровар;The man was put into jail because he was violent.
11;academic;илмӣ;The academic library is open late.
11;allowance;пули ҷайбӣ;I get a weekly allowance of $10.
11;appropriate;мувофиқ;Is this appropriate for a meeting?
11;art;санъат;He loves modern art.
11;ate;хӯрд;I ate a delicious apple.
11;boss;сардор;My boss is a very kind person.
11;colleague;ҳамкор;My colleague and I work on the same project.
11;complicated;мураккаб;This math problem is very complicated.
11;describe;тавсиф кардан;Can you describe what he looks like?
11;ever;ҳамеша/ягон вақт;Have you ever been to Paris?
11;fail;ноком шудан;I studied hard so I wouldn't fail the test.
11;grade;баҳо;She received an A grade on her report.
11;guest;меҳмон;We have a guest staying in our house.
11;issue;масъала/мушкилот;The environment is a major issue today.
11;lack;нокифоягӣ;Her only problem is a lack of time.
11;native;маҳаллӣ;He is a native of this city.
11;offord;метавонам харам (имкон доштан);I cannot afford to buy that expensive car.
11;quiet;ором;Please be quiet in the library.
11;rescue;наҷот додан;The fireman rescued the cat from the tree.
11;trust;бовар кардан;I trust my best friend with my secrets.
12;arrogant;мағрур;He is very arrogant and thinks he is better than everyone.
12;avoid;пешгирӣ кардан;I try to avoid walking in the rain.
12;bar;панҷара;The prisoners are behind bars.
12;brilliant;дурахшон/боистеъдод;She is a brilliant student with high grades.
12;celebrate;ҷашн гирифтан;We will celebrate my birthday with a big party.
12;character;хислат/қаҳрамон;He is a man of good character.
12;colossal;азим;The statue of the king is colossal.
12;decent;муносиб;I need to find a decent job to support my family.
12;dull;кунд/дилгиркунанда;The movie was quite dull, so I fell asleep.
12;embarrass;шарманда кардан;I didn't mean to embarrass you in front of your friends.
12;fare;нархи чипта;The bus fare has increased this year.
12;former;собиқ;He is a former teacher at this school.
12;gloom;торикӣ;There was a sense of gloom after the bad news.
12;giant;азим;The giant walked through the city.
12;harmful;зарарнок;Smoking is harmful to your health.
12;lard;равғани хук;The chef used lard for cooking.
12;lump;пора/тӯда;There was a lump of sugar in my tea.
12;mist;тумани сабук;We couldn't see the mountains because of the thick mist.
12;path;роҳ;We followed the narrow path through the woods.
12;resident;сокин;He is a resident of this apartment building.
13;adventure;саргузашт;Riding on a roller coaster is a fun adventure.
13;approach;наздик шудан;The boy approached his school.
13;carefully;боэҳтиёт;Carefully climb down the stairs.
13;chemical;кимёвӣ;The scientist mixed the chemicals.
13;create;эҷод кардан;She created an art project.
13;evil;бадхоҳ;The evil man wanted to hurt others.
13;experiment;таҷриба;The student did an experiment in science class.
13;kill;куштан;I killed the spider.
13;laboratory;лаборатория;My mother works in a laboratory.
13;laugh;хандидан;The sound of their laughter filled the room.
13;loud;баланд;The sound of the music was very loud.
13;nervous;асабонӣ;The boy became nervous when he heard the news.
13;noise;садо;The noise from the street kept me awake.
13;project;лоиҳа;His school project was to learn about bees.
13;scare;тарсондан;My uncle likes to scare my little brother.
13;secret;сир;The two friends shared a secret.
13;shout;фарёд задан;My boss shouted at me because I was late.
13;smell;бӯй;The smell of fresh bread made me hungry.
13;terrible;даҳшатнок;The food at the restaurant was terrible.
13;worse;бадтар;Business is worse than it was last month.
14;alien;бегона;The alien came from another planet.
14;among;дар байни;The teacher walked among the students.
14;chart;ҷадвал;We used a chart to record the temperature.
14;cloud;абр;The sky was full of white clouds.
14;comprehend;фаҳмидан;I could not comprehend the math lesson.
14;describe;тавсиф кардан;They described their trip to the mountains.
14;ever;ягон бор;Have you ever been to a foreign country?
14;fail;ноком шудан;He failed the test because he didn't study.
14;friendly;дӯстона;The new girl in my class is very friendly.
14;grade;баҳо;I got a good grade on my history test.
14;instead;ба ҷои он;Can I have a banana instead of an apple?
14;library;китобхона;The library is a quiet place to read.
14;planet;сайёра;Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system.
14;report;ҳисобот;I wrote a report about the history of my town.
14;several;якчанд;I have several friends in my class.
14;solve;ҳал кардан;I was able to solve the difficult puzzle.
14;suddenly;ногаҳон;Suddenly, the lights went out.
14;suppose;гумон кардан;I suppose you are right about the time.
14;universe;коинот;The universe is very big and old.
14;view;назар;The view from the top of the tower was amazing.
15;appropriate;мувофиқ;It is appropriate to wear a suit to a wedding.
15;avoid;канор ҷустан;I avoid walking in the rain.
15;behave;рафтор кардан;She always behaves well in class.
15;calm;ором;It is important to stay calm during an emergency.
15;concern;нигаронӣ;I am concerned about my friend's health.
15;content;қаноатманд;The baby was content with his milk.
15;expect;интизор будан;I expect to finish my work by 5 PM.
15;frequently;зуд-зуд;We go to the park frequently.
15;habit;одат;My habit is to read a book before bed.
15;instruct;дастур додан;My teacher instructed us to open our books.
15;issue;масъала;The main issue is that we don't have enough money.
15;none;ҳеҷ кас/чиз;None of the students knew the answer.
15;patient;сабрнок;He is a patient teacher who explains things slowly.
15;positive;мусбат;She has a positive attitude toward life.
15;punish;ҷазо додан;My mom punished me for breaking the window.
15;represent;намояндагӣ кардан;The flag represents our country.
15;shake;ларзидан;He shook my hand when we met.
15;spread;паҳн шудан;The fire spread quickly through the building.
15;stroll;гаштугузор кардан;We strolled through the park in the evening.
15;village;деҳа;The village is far from the big city.
16;abroad;дар хориҷа;My brother lives abroad.
16;anger;хашм;She felt a lot of anger at the news.
16;bride;арӯс;The bride looked beautiful in her white dress.
16;brief;мухтасар;It was a brief meeting, only five minutes long.
16;chase;таъқиб кардан;The dog chased the cat up the tree.
16;disappoint;дилсард кардан;I was disappointed when the show was cancelled.
16;fare;нарх;The bus fare is two dollars.
16;farewell;видоъ;We said our farewells at the airport.
16;gate;дарвоза;Please close the gate when you leave.
16;hollow;ковок;The tree trunk was hollow.
16;instantly;фаврӣ;The medicine worked instantly.
16;mere;танҳо/оддӣ;It was a mere accident, not intentional.
16;peasant;деҳқон;The peasant worked hard on his small farm.
16;pledge;ваъда;I made a pledge to study harder.
16;sadly;мутаассифона;Sadly, we had to leave early.
16;submit;итоат кардан;The students submitted their reports on time.
16;tramp;сайёҳ/одамони бекор;The tramp walked from city to city.
16;tusk;дандон (оҷ);Elephants have long white tusks.
16;veil;ниқоб;The bride wore a long veil.
16;whisper;пичиррос задан;He whispered a secret into my ear.
17;analogy;монандӣ;The teacher used an analogy to explain the lesson.
17;avoid;канор ҷустан;I avoid people who are always complaining.
17;behave;рафтор кардан;He behaves like a gentleman.
17;certainly;албатта;I will certainly help you with your project.
17;concern;ташвиш;Her main concern is her child's education.
17;detail;тафсилот;Can you give me more details about the plan?
17;duty;вазифа;It is my duty to look after my little sister.
17;error;хато;There were several errors in your essay.
17;intense;шадид;The sun's heat was very intense today.
17;list;рӯйхат;I made a list of things to buy.
17;manager;мудир;The manager of the store is very strict.
17;object;ашё;What is that object on the floor?
17;precise;дақиқ;I need a precise answer, not a guess.
17;present;тӯҳфа/ҳозир;He gave me a birthday present.
17;reward;мукофот;Hard work brings a good reward.
17;set;ҷойгир кардан;Set the table for dinner, please.
17;space;фазо;There is not enough space for everyone.
17;thorough;пурра;The doctor did a thorough check-up.
17;underlying;асосӣ;The underlying cause of the problem is stress.
17;water;об;Drink plenty of water every day.
18;applaud;кафкӯбӣ кардан;The audience applauded after the concert.
18;assist;кӯмак кардан;Can I assist you with your bags?
18;career;касбу кор;She has a successful career as a doctor.
18;department;шуъба;I work in the accounting department.
18;dismay;ноумедӣ;I was filled with dismay when I failed the exam.
18;ease;осони;He passed the exam with ease.
18;flag;парчам;The flag flew high above the building.
18;innate;модарзод;She has an innate talent for music.
18;lure;ҷалб кардан;The store used low prices to lure customers.
18;moderate;мӯътадил;The weather was moderate today.
18;occupy;ишғол кардан;The soldiers occupied the building.
18;phrase;ибора;That is a common English phrase.
18;propose;пешниҳод кардан;He proposed a new plan for the project.
18;restore;барқарор кардан;They restored the old house.
18;seize;гирифтан;He seized the opportunity to speak.
18;starve;гурусна мондан;Without food, they will starve.
18;treat;муомила кардан;Treat others as you want to be treated.
18;urn;зарф;The ashes were kept in an urn.
18;vanish;нопадид шудан;The magic rabbit vanished into thin air.
18;witness;шоҳид;Did you witness the accident?
19;accompany;ҳамроҳӣ кардан;May I accompany you to the party?
19;bare;бараҳна;He walked on the bare floor with his socks.
19;branch;шоха;The bird sat on a branch of the tree.
19;breath;нафас;Take a deep breath and relax.
19;bridge;пул;We crossed the bridge to get to the city.
19;cast;партофтан;The fisherman cast his net into the sea.
19;dare;ҷуръат кардан;I didn't dare to tell him the truth.
19;electronic;электронӣ;I bought an electronic toy for my son.
19;inn;меҳмонхонаи хурд;We stayed at a quiet inn in the village.
19;landscape;манзара;The landscape of the desert is very dry.
19;mess;бетартибӣ;Your room is in such a mess!
19;plead;илтиҷо кардан;The boy pleaded with his mom for ice cream.
19;presume;гумон кардан;I presume he will be late as usual.
19;rarity;нодир;This stamp is a rarity.
19;shining;дурахшон;The sun is shining brightly today.
19;skill;маҳорат;She has great skill in painting.
19;somber;ғамгин;The funeral was a somber occasion.
19;stream;дарёча;We walked along the small stream.
19;tide;мавҷ;The tide is coming in.
19;village;деҳа;I grew up in a small village.
20;access;дастрасӣ;Do you have access to the internet?
20;according;мувофиқи;According to the news, it will rain tomorrow.
20;approach;наздик шудан;I approached the teacher to ask a question.
20;brief;мухтасар;The meeting was brief but important.
20;case;ҳолат;In case of fire, use the stairs.
20;certain;боварӣ доштан;I am certain that he will come.
20;choice;интихоб;You have a choice between coffee and tea.
20;climb;баромадан;He climbed the tree to get the apple.
20;comment;шарҳ;What is your comment on this issue?
20;compare;муқоиса кардан;Compare these two books and tell me the difference.
20;complete;пурра;He completed his work on time.
20;creature;махлуқ;There are many strange creatures in the ocean.
20;depend;вобаста будан;It depends on the weather.
20;develop;инкишоф додан;We need to develop new methods.
20;drop;партофтан;I dropped my phone and it broke.
20;event;ҳодиса;The concert was a big event in our town.
20;exist;вуҷуд доштан;Do ghosts really exist?
20;fear;тарс;He has a fear of heights.
20;force;қувва;He used force to open the door.
20;goal;мақсад;My goal is to learn English well.
21;adventure;саргузашт;They went on a wild adventure in the woods.
21;approach;наздик шудан;He approached the building slowly.
21;carefully;боэҳтиёт;She carefully opened the heavy door.
21;chemical;кимёвӣ;The lab is full of dangerous chemicals.
21;create;эҷод кардан;She created a new design for the company.
21;evil;бадхоҳ;The villain had an evil plan.
21;experiment;таҷриба;They conducted an experiment to test the theory.
21;kill;куштан;The frost killed all the flowers in the garden.
21;laboratory;лаборатория;He works as a scientist in a laboratory.
21;laugh;хандидан;Her laugh made everyone feel happy.
21;loud;баланд;The music was too loud to hear anything.
21;nervous;асабонӣ;He was nervous before his big presentation.
21;noise;садо;There was a lot of noise outside my window.
21;project;лоиҳа;Our team finished the project ahead of time.
21;scare;тарсондан;The thunder scared the dog.
21;secret;сир;She told me a secret and asked me not to share it.
21;shout;фарёд задан;The coach shouted instructions to the players.
21;smell;бӯй;The smell of flowers was very pleasant.
21;terrible;даҳшатнок;The weather was terrible yesterday.
21;worse;бадтар;My situation is worse than it was before.
22;alien;бегона;The movie is about an alien visiting Earth.
22;among;дар байни;He stood among the crowd.
22;chart;ҷадвал;Look at the chart to see the sales growth.
22;cloud;абр;Dark clouds suggest that it will rain soon.
22;comprehend;фаҳмидан;I could not comprehend why he did that.
22;describe;тавсиф кардан;Describe your perfect day in three words.
22;ever;ягон бор;Have you ever seen such a beautiful view?
22;fail;ноком шудан;If you don't practice, you might fail.
22;friendly;дӯстона;She is a friendly person who likes to meet new people.
22;grade;баҳо;What grade did you get on your English test?
22;instead;ба ҷои он;I bought a pen instead of a pencil.
22;library;китобхона;She spent the whole day in the library.
22;planet;сайёра;Earth is the only planet with life that we know.
22;report;ҳисобот;Did you submit your weekly report?
22;several;якчанд;I have several ideas about how to fix it.
22;solve;ҳал кардан;We need to solve this mystery quickly.
22;suddenly;ногаҳон;Suddenly, the phone rang.
22;suppose;гумон кардан;I suppose we should go home now.
22;universe;коинот;The universe is constantly expanding.
22;view;назар/манзара;The hotel has a beautiful view of the sea.
23;appropriate;мувофиқ;Is it appropriate to wear jeans to a formal party?
23;avoid;канор ҷустан;You should avoid eating too much sugar.
23;behave;рафтор кардан;Children must learn to behave in public.
23;calm;ором;Please stay calm and listen to me.
23;concern;ташвиш;Her main concern is the safety of her children.
23;content;қаноатманд;Are you content with your current job?
23;expect;интизор будан;I expect to hear from him by tomorrow.
23;frequently;зуд-зуд;We visit our grandparents frequently.
23;habit;одат;It is a good habit to wake up early.
23;instruct;дастур додан;The teacher instructed the students to start writing.
23;issue;масъала;The issue of global warming is very important.
23;none;ҳеҷ кас;None of the guests liked the food.
23;patient;сабрнок;Be patient, help will come soon.
23;positive;мусбат;She is a very positive person.
23;punish;ҷазо додан;He was punished for his bad behavior.
23;represent;намояндагӣ кардан;This logo represents our brand.
23;shake;ларзидан;My hands were shaking because I was cold.
23;spread;паҳн кардан;Spread the butter on the bread.
23;stroll;гаштугузор кардан;We strolled along the beach.
23;village;деҳа;The village is located in the mountains.
24;abroad;дар хориҷа;Many students go abroad to study.
24;anger;хашм;He tried to hide his anger, but I could see it.
24;bride;арӯс;The bride looked radiant.
24;brief;мухтасар;Can you give me a brief summary?
24;chase;таъқиб кардан;The police chased the thief.
24;disappoint;дилсард кардан;I don't want to disappoint my parents.
24;fare;нарх;The taxi fare is too high.
24;farewell;видоъ;It was a sad farewell at the train station.
24;gate;дарвоза;Lock the gate before you leave.
24;hollow;ковок;The log was hollow inside.
24;instantly;фаврӣ;He reacted instantly to the danger.
24;mere;танҳо/оддӣ;It was a mere suggestion, not an order.
24;peasant;деҳқон;The peasant owned a small piece of land.
24;pledge;ваъда;They made a pledge to support each other.
24;sadly;мутаассифона;Sadly, he lost his job.
24;submit;итоат кардан;The team submitted their final project.
24;tramp;сайёҳ;The tramp rested on the park bench.
24;tusk;оҷ;The elephant used its tusks to dig for water.
24;veil;ниқоб;She lifted her veil to show her face.
24;whisper;пичиррос задан;They whispered so nobody could hear them.
25;analogy;монандӣ;An analogy can help make a point clearer.
25;avoid;канор ҷустан;Avoid looking directly at the sun.
25;behave;рафтор кардан;She behaves professionally at work.
25;certainly;албатта;I will certainly finish this today.
25;concern;ташвиш;Our concern is the quality of the product.
25;detail;тафсилот;Please provide every detail of the accident.
25;duty;вазифа;It is my duty to ensure safety.
25;error;хато;There was an error in the calculation.
25;intense;шадид;They had an intense discussion about politics.
25;list;рӯйхат;Did you add everything to the list?
25;manager;мудир;The store manager helped me find the item.
25;object;ашё;He picked up a strange object.
25;precise;дақиқ;I need a precise measurement of the room.
25;present;тӯҳфа;Here is a small present for you.
25;reward;мукофот;Hard work always brings a reward.
25;set;гузоштан;Set the bag on the counter.
25;space;фазо;We need more space to expand the office.
25;thorough;пурра;The lawyer made a thorough investigation.
25;underlying;асосӣ;They analyzed the underlying causes of the war.
25;water;об;Clean water is essential for life.
26;adapt;мутобиқ шудан;He adapted to the cold weather quickly.
26;biological;биологӣ;The study focused on biological changes in cells.
26;cellular;ҳуҷайравӣ;The disease affects cellular growth.
26;dynamic;пурқувват;She is a dynamic leader with many new ideas.
26;fantasy;хаёл;He likes reading books about fantasy worlds.
26;generate;тавлид кардан;The new factory generates a lot of electricity.
26;glacier;пирях;The glacier is melting because of the heat.
26;habitat;макони зист;The forest is the natural habitat of many animals.
26;imitate;тақлид кардан;The parrot imitates the sounds it hears.
26;isolate;ҷудо кардан;The scientist isolated the virus.
26;joint;буғум;My knee joint hurts when I run.
26;labor;меҳнат;He does hard physical labor.
26;manual;дастӣ;I read the instruction manual for my new phone.
26;muscle;мушак;Lifting weights builds muscle.
26;native;маҳаллӣ;The kangaroo is native to Australia.
26;network;шабака;We have a fast computer network.
26;ocean;уқёнус;The ocean is full of mystery.
26;pain;дард;I feel pain in my back.
26;quarry;кандакорӣ;They get stone from the quarry.
26;rare;нодир;This is a very rare coin.
27;relax;дам гирифтан;I like to relax on the weekends.
27;quest;ҷустуҷӯ;They went on a quest to find the lost treasure.
27;ridge;пушта;We walked along the mountain ridge.
27;salary;музди меҳнат;Her salary increased after the promotion.
27;shrine;зиёратгоҳ;People visit the shrine to pray.
27;solitude;танҳоӣ;I enjoy the solitude of the forest.
27;strait;гулӯгоҳ;Ships pass through the narrow strait.
27;view;назар;The view from my window is beautiful.
27;wise;хирадманд;He is a wise old man.
27;yacht;яхта;They sailed their yacht across the sea.
28;achieve;ноил шудан;She worked hard to achieve her goal of becoming a doctor.
28;allow;иҷозат додан;My parents allow me to play outside after school.
28;argument;баҳс;They had a long argument about which movie to watch.
28;battle;ҷанг;The two armies fought a fierce battle.
28;coach;мураббӣ;Our basketball coach taught us how to shoot better.
28;disease;беморӣ;The doctor is studying a new type of disease.
28;eager;муштоқ;The children were eager to open their presents.
28;enter;даромадан;Please knock before you enter the room.
28;film;филм;We watched a very funny film at the cinema.
28;glance;нигаристан;He took a quick glance at his watch to check the time.
28;harsh;сахт;The winter in the mountains was very harsh.
28;imagine;тасаввур кардан;Can you imagine living on another planet?
28;jewel;ҷавоҳирот;The queen wore a beautiful jewel on her crown.
28;knee;зону;I hurt my knee when I fell down.
28;limit;маҳдудият;There is a speed limit on this road.
28;march;қадам задан;The soldiers marched through the town.
28;native;модарӣ;Her native language is Persian, but she speaks English well.
28;ocean;уқёнус;The ship sailed across the vast ocean.
28;original;аслӣ;This is the original copy of the document.
28;pavement;роҳрав;Pedestrians should walk on the pavement, not the road.
29;harsh;сахт;The weather in the Arctic is very harsh.
29;imagine;тасаввур кардан;Imagine life without electricity.
29;jewel;ҷавоҳирот;She wore a beautiful jewel on her necklace.
29;knee;зону;I hurt my knee when I fell down.
29;limit;маҳдудият;There is a limit to how much I can carry.
29;march;қадам задан;The soldiers marched in line.
29;native;модарӣ;English is my native language.
29;ocean;уқёнус;We saw many ships on the ocean.
29;original;аслӣ;This is the original copy of the document.
29;pavement;роҳрав;Pedestrians should walk on the pavement, not the road.
29;poverty;камбизоатӣ;He grew up in poverty but became successful later.
29;proverb;зарбулмасал;My grandmother always quotes a wise proverb.
29;scenery;манзара;The scenery in the countryside is breathtaking.
29;settle;маскун шудан;They decided to settle in a small town.
29;shallow;камарз (камчуқур);The water in the pool is quite shallow.
29;team;даста;Our team won the championship.
29;temperate;мӯътадил;The area has a temperate climate all year.
29;vain;беҳуда;All his efforts were in vain.
29;view;назар;I have a different view on this matter.
29;wait;интизор шудан;Please wait for me at the station.
30;admit;иқрор шудан;He had to admit that he made a mistake.
30;bin;қуттӣ;Please put the paper in the recycling bin.
30;bowl;коса;She ate a bowl of hot soup for dinner.
30;cabin;хонаи чӯбин;They spent their vacation in a quiet cabin.
30;cash;пули нақд;Do you prefer to pay by card or with cash?
30;examine;тафтиш кардан;The scientist examined the sample under a microscope.
30;fan;мухлис;He is a huge fan of classical music.
30;gift;тӯҳфа;Thank you for the lovely gift.
30;happy;хушбахт;It makes me happy to see my friends succeed.
30;hint;ишора;She gave me a hint about the surprise party.
30;innocent;бегуноҳ;The jury found him innocent of the crime.
30;laugh;хандидан;We couldn't stop laughing at his funny story.
30;lay;гузоштан;Please lay the blanket on the bed.
30;member;аъзо;She is a dedicated member of the sports club.
30;master;устод;He is a master of chess; nobody can beat him.
30;puzzle;муаммо;I spent all afternoon working on this puzzle.
30;receive;гирифтан;I hope to receive your letter by next week.
30;remind;ба хотир овардан;Please remind me to lock the door before leaving.
30;sufficient;кифоя;We have sufficient food for all the guests.
30;supper;хӯроки шом;We usually have a light supper before going to bed.
